Web server flow /Authorization code grant flow

part of OAuth 2.0`, when client app(web app) can sfely stores secretes and need to acess the salesforce data on behalf of user.
sprecillay the Applictaion runs secure server (hosted in Amzon,azure ,heroku etc).
salesforce has same ability to save the secrete flow
  
  
steps : intent is need to Acess data for that u have choseen the Login with Salesforce

1.Client asks Authorization server for permission(clientid,scope,redirect url)

2.login page and need your consent(ligin page then ask for permission Allow or deny)

3.redirct the browser to redirct url of the client app(it will share single use authoriztion code in not permantae one)

4.client exchange code  Access token /secure back channel access(client has acess token so he can able 

5.Access Token and refersh token issued  now he can able to get data from server

disAdvantages
1.secured server requred
2.not for headless app(like middle ware  ETL TOOL ...().MEAN need user interaction)
3.broweser interaction needed(need to provide consent)
4.strict configuration required(redirect uri 	)


Implicit flow (UserAgent flow)-->Deprecated 

used in browser based or mobile apps that can not store secrets and need acess tokens. 
not secure bcz secrets not stores that secrets communitcated through  url and that is dirct access token not  single use authoriztion code

steps

1.login with salesforce --->

2.client side spa ( client _id,redircturl ,reponse_type=token )

3.the user log in and approves the acess in sfdc (insted of redircting with single use authorization code,user backs to aplliction with accesstoken 
in url dirctly

disadvantatge 

no refresh token (but sfdc allows)
insted use pkce flow


PKCE FLOW
proof key for code Exchange

generally pixcy flow  its security extention authorization server flow

use case:dont have a secure server to store your client is and secrests (broweswer based app or mobile based app) also above the implicit grant flow

PKCE mecahnism basically two things 1.code_verifier and 2. code_challenge
both are one time parameter unique and combination of both demonstrate to  the Authorization sever that authorization code request  and subsequent token 
request made in same  entity


1.Code_verifier(secret)--> the client application  genertares and securely  stores  the code verifier ,which is typically an  random string
used just once . the client must be  able to generate  and securely store the value 
2.code_challenge(public value)-->then client create the code_challenge  from code_verifier . this is done by hashing the code_verifier using SHA -256
  algorithm and then base 64 encoding with the hash


steps

flow begains the client app  sends authorization code request to  Authorization server  including client id  redirecturl and code challange .
Authorization server  stores  thsi code_challenge to check latter

2.Authorization server  verifies   the user login nd scopes approval

3. After consent then Authorization server redirectback to client  redirect url  with authorization cocde.

4.once the authorization code is with u client app initiates post requests to Authorization  server token endpoint 
which include( authorization code ,client id ,matching  redirect uri  and crucially  original unhashed  code_verifier

5. Authorization server validate request parameter and then performs  the central PKCE check(hashes the code_verifier. and compare the resulting hashes
against the   code_challenge submitted  in the initial request

6. if all access matches then isuue the access token and  refresh token


Client Credential flow

when ever the authorization machine to machine then it fits.maean the requester is Machine

no real time user  intarction is required and  .the flow authenticates  it self with authorization server by client id and client secret 

steps 
 
1.client sends clientId ,clientSecret, endpoint  with http post call   with specify as grant_type  ='Client_credentials'
2.then requet sent to Authorix=zation servers it verifies and send  access token 

but salesforce recomend that we need  a execution user as integertion user licence(API only User permission) for auditability, tracing and  all


JWT  Token Bearer flow

JSON Web Token

design for server to server interactin  where appliction doesnot need access the data  with out real tien user interaction

consider more secure as u dont need the client id rather private key

insted of user  entering  credential or approving the accesss in browser ,the client appliction  signs  a token  with digital  certificate
to prove identity

ideal for automated process  such as middleware (ETL-EXTRACT TRANSFORM LOAD  TOOLS ,comtinues integration servers  or daemons  that run in background
that no Allow consent is required 


structure of JWT

1. Header (contains info which algorithm  is used for signin request ex: RS 256)
2. payload (conatis the  claims info  by using parameter ex({"iss,sub,aud,exp"}) ex:{Iss:OAuth client_id ,
                                                                                         aud: Authorization server url,
																						 sub:userúserName
																						 exp:Token expiry unix time
																				     }
																					 )
																					 
																					 
																					 
																					 

3. signature (contains 3 part ex: HMACSH256(base 64 Urlencoder(Header)+""+base64(URLEncode(payload),privatekey)))

steps 
1. client will create JSOnobject and claims
2. sign JWT with private key(post call)
3. Token request  (grant type and assertion)
4. Token response (Note:every time new access token no refereh token)
